WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th Street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
MAN (on radio):
...right up until 6:00 a.m.,
Roger Armendale with the traffic report.
Thanks for sticking with me
through the night.
If you've been up all night,
here's the song for you.
(music playing on radio)
For those of you who just got up,
here's how the other half lives.
- The immortal Glenn Miller.
-(radio shuts off)
-(knocking on door)
-RENKO: Hey, Jablonski!
(knocking continues)
Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
-Oh, yes.
-Mm, give me some of that coffee.
-How'd you sleep last night?
-Not a wink, man.
-I was up at two, up at three.
-I couldn't sleep.
I was up cleaning my gear, packing.
Where's Henry?
We're meeting him at the stationhouse.
I said to myself, "Get me out of that car.
Get me out of that job.
Get me somewhere that matters."
Come on. We'll take it in the car.
"Oh, my heart is in the highlands.
My heart is not here.
My heart is in the highlands
a-chasing the deer."
White man, early 30s,
medium-length brown hair,
blue windbreaker.
This is the third armed robbery.
Currency exchange last night,
18th and Prometory.
-White male. Medium height.
-Thanks, Sarge.
-One hundred and fifty pounds.
-Here you go.
-Thanks.
-Medium-length brown hair.
Blue windbreaker.
There will be a bunch
of Boy Scouts in the house today.
The captain will be talking to them
at 1100 hours on law enforcement
as a career.
Anyone who would like to attend is...
Law enforcement as a hobby?
-That's in your case, Flaherty.
-(laughter)
...is welcome. Thank you, Lieutenant.
Oh, the captain was looking for you.
I would like you all to read
and pay attention to the recommendations
regarding the carrying
of a second or backup gun.
You must have the registration
and permission in your file,
and you must qualify with this gun
as well as your service revolver
at the range.
We recommend the backup gun.
And we recommend practice.
The life you save may be your own.
Any questions?
Why is Detective Goldblume
going undercover?
(snickering)
HOWARD: Lieutenant Goldblume
is not working undercover.
For those of you who have kept pace
with the developments in your community,
Sergeant Stan Jablonski,
metro police retired,
is going hunting
with several of our colleagues.
They're going out to kill Bambi.
(groaning)
They're going out to slaughter poor,
defenseless creatures.
Hey, if you can eat it, you can kill it.
Wanna keep your personal life
to yourself, LaRue?
-(jeering)
-HOWARD: All right.
All right, the new rotation
figures on the board.
Uh...
Officer Katherine McBride,
who was sent to Polk Avenue
for special duty,
is back with us for several days.
Please show her every kind courtesy.
-And I thank you for your attention.
-(chattering)
Around the corner, get the car gassed.
-Hey, Sarge! How you doing?
-Just fine. Never better.
Hey, what's it like on the outside, huh?
-You miss it?
-I miss what?
-Police work.
-Worst 30 years of my life.
Time to feed the kitty.
Ante up. Let's go. Let's go.
NEAL: I mean, what do you do all day, huh?
Eat bon-bons and buff my nails.
Don't you have work to do?
Time to contribute to the hunting fund.
Gas, oil, condiments.
Lieutenant, thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
I'll see you later.
I'll be back, I'll be back.
Gotta have two words with the captain.
Oh, quickly as you can, Henry, we gotta
pick up the keys to the hunting lodge.
Sergeant, I need a female officer
for an undercover slot.
-I don't have one.
-Well, can you find me one?
You check when the next rotation comes in.
-Hey, I'm jammed up with this here.
-I can't create a female out of thin air.
If a guy could, it would make
all our evenings more interesting.
(chuckles)
I'll tell you what else you
can't create out of thin air, deer.
Got the technology to kill it maybe--
Sergeant Bates,
if you would allow me a minute.
Women bond together as they do
to raise their consciousness,
to knit, to sew,
to discuss child birth, that's fine.
Why do you find it ludicrous
that men would do the same?
Boys' clubs? Hunting?
No girls allowed?
-So destructive, I don't--
-Oh, do you want to come, Sarge?
-No, thank you, no.
-Then what do you care?
Hey, McBride.
-Good to see you.
-Hello, Lieutenant.
What's new at the Polk? You got a minute?
Buy me a cup of coffee, huh?
-So, what brings you back?
-Light duty, a couple of days.
Get you off the street? Too hot?
I knew they had you in soft clothes.
You know, I'm sorry
you scooted out of here.
-Bounce in, bounce out.
-Yeah, well, I'm sorry, too.
Would've put you undercover here.
Could've used you.
You would pass for anything.
So, where are you
strapped by the way, huh?
Where are you packing?
I can't catch a bulge.
-How are you, Kate?
-I'm doing okay.
Now, you see that?
That's what I'm talking about.
This is what I need here.
Five dollars, I'd say she's not
even carrying a gun on her.
Yeah, she could pass for anything.
I got a little detail
I'm putting together.
You got some time, Kate?
You wanna go talk?
She is talking. She's talking to me.
-I have to go sign in.
-Okay.
Uh, take your time.
I'll catch up with you.
Now what did I say?
Did you see last night's
occurrence sheets from the Polk?
All right, then what am I gonna find?
She shot a man in a gunfight.
IAD pulled her badge and her gun.
Put her on the bow and arrow detail
until after the hearing.
-Did she kill him?
-That's right.
That is a hard one.
What?
Henry, if there were any other
way out of this, I'd take it.
It's an accident I'm even here today.
I have two days off. I just stopped by
to drop off the rotation roster.
I understand. I know.
I'm not gonna order you to do this,
but I'm called downtown
and there are going to be 25 Boy Scouts
here expecting a lecture.
-Somebody has to do it.
-What about Howard?
-Seems tailor-made.
-He's jammed up with overtime monthly.
I'm sorry, Henry.
You'll be through by 11:30.
-The men are waiting in the car.
-Can't you drive up and meet them?
-Henry...
-Yes, sir.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
-Captain.
-I'm coming.
Thank you, Henry.
I'm all packed up and I'm ready to roll.
Let's roll.
Lieutenant Goldblume, here we go.
I'm not going.
I'll have to meet you there.
BOBBY: What?
I'm gonna be tied up here till 11:30.
I'll drive up and meet you there.
I'm just... I'm just...
I'll meet you there.
Get off on 201.
Go east two miles to the corner store.
Make a left.
Four, five miles, come to a yellow house
with a red barn on the right.
You take the next dirt road to the right.
You can't miss it.
Henry, I'm sorry. I'll make it up to you.
-Stan, how are you?
-Captain, how are you?
-I'm sorry to take your boy.
-Oh, he'll catch up.
We'd wait, but we have
to get the keys to the cabin.
No, no, no.
It's all right. I'll meet you there.
"I slept and dreamt that life was beauty.
I've woke and found life was duty."
Henry, since you're here,
wanna stalk the wild request
for overtime with me?
Nothing like a day in the woods, huh?
I'm standing there with a cup of coffee.
Guy comes out with a shotgun from under
his coat, and he starts to speak.
I cannot hear a word that he's saying.
Next thing I'm aware of,
the paramedics are taking him away.
He's still jerking like a fish.
Some guy in uniform takes my gun.
All I can think, guy with a shotgun,
what was he trying to say?
I mean, if you wanna say something,
then speak up!
I've got the image of him.
All I can think--
I want to tell him something.
And then the thought comes
that he's dead...
and then the thought
comes that I killed him.
-I think you're still in shock.
-I'm in what?
I'm in something, I don't know.
-You saw a psychiatrist?
-Oh, yeah.
The whole routine.
-What'd he tell you?
-He didn't tell me anything.
I didn't tell him anything.
You know, it's terrible
when something like this happens.
What happened to the guy,
or what happened to me?
-We could...
-No.
No, I think I just wanna sit here
until they decide
if I'm a criminal or not.
-What?
-BOBBY: Blue pickup, Michigan plates.
-What about it?
-I think we had the plates
on the hot list.
Wrong vehicle.
Put it in neutral, my friend.
Let yourself kick back.
Just say to yourself,
"A man who is only his job, what is he?"
A machine. Not even the machine,
a cog in the machine.
We are not put on this earth just to work.
The word is recreation. Re-creation.
Meditate on that for a second.
Until roll call Monday morning,
we are not cops but men.
Men in the woods.
Men at one with themselves.
-Give me a sandwich.
-BOBBY: Coffee.
STAN: You guys think about the problem?
-I did.
-Tell me.
Deer breaks cover, runs to the crest
of the ridge, we lay low.
-That's obvious.
-Unmoving.
-Wait till the deer's had time--
-Right.
No, that is what we do not want to do.
Deer breaks cover, runs to the crest,
-you've got the advantage.
-BOBBY: Because?
'Cause he can't hear you.
He's running too hard.
The deer's heart is pounding.
He's terrified.
His perceptions are dull.
For one moment, he is playing your game.
The deer is running to the ridge,
the thing you do, you run to the ridge.
Odds are you'll get a shot at him
when he comes up on the other side.
-Another thing.
-Mm, this stuff's good.
Deer breaks cover on the flat.
-Now where are we?
-Let's say we're in the brush.
Here and here.
MAN: Please put your hands
on the dashboard.
Man in the backseat, put your hands
on the back of the seat in front of you.
-Uh, we--
-Just do as I say right now.
-Please.
-Uh, we're police officers.
Right now, please! Right now!
Oh.
I find an unfortunate
aspect of our society
is the absence of an alternative
means of establishing status.
Uh-huh.
Yes, there is a certain status
structure in any job.
Who is the boss? Who is the underling?
And a too close adherence
to that structure
causes jealousy of those above
and an indifference towards those below.
-Which is why the company baseball--
-I've got to write a talk.
Well, let me just make this point.
You see, I think the fact
that you are going hunting
with men below, while some may say
that is a violation
of the status structure, I--
I've got to talk to 25 Boy Scouts
in half an hour.
Oh.
-Yes?
-Would you talk to this woman, please?
I'm Lieutenant Goldblume.
-I'm--
-If you have just five minutes, sir.
-Miss...
-Fletcher.
Oh.
-Miss Fletcher, I have about five minu--
-I'll be brief. I, uh--
Many people are struck by the, uh, by--
by what happens in the cities.
You-you think it will not affect you.
You-- People cannot stand the stress.
And you look at people around you
and you see what happens to them
and you say it won't happen to you.
Miss Fletcher,
what specifically is your complaint?
My...
My boyfriend won't make love to me.
They said the way to do it,
they developed a drill--
Thing is, never give up the gun.
-Statistics say never give up the gun.
-Never give up the gun.
That's what I'm saying.
-So they developed this drill--
-I've heard of this.
-You know what I'm talking about.
-Man gets a drop on your partner,
gets your partner's gun,
you work out a signal.
-Call him by--
-Call him by a strange name.
Say for example,
"Clarence, give him what he wants."
Well, the word "Clarence" is the signal.
-He drops--
-Your partner drops.
Your partner hears that word,
he drops to the ground, you draw and fire.
-Chances that's gonna work?
-Idea is to die on your feet.
-That's right.
-To die with a gun in your hand.
-Rather than go out on your knees.
-I vote for that any day.
-That situation can always get worse.
Some sucker gets a drop on me,
I'm gonna shoot it out right there.
Okay, word is, my cousin
says when you get there,
you work your way back from the dry creek.
Three quarters of a mile back,
there's a broken down stone fence.
That's where he got his deer last year.
-Hey, man, we appreciate it.
-My pleasure.
No, no, no, that's on us.
-Thanks for the advice.
-Thank you.
You just keep looking for
that stone fence.
And why did you pull us over?
Well, my partner thought
you looked a tad suspicious.
We've been having some burglaries.
I said, "No, they're just going
to a costume party."
Costumes?
-No, these are our hunting clothes.
-Uh-huh.
It's always good to show
a little class in the woods.
Stone fence 3/4 of a mile back,
dry creek bed.
We'd better hit it.
We got to pick up those keys.
-Thanks for the advice.
-Always glad to help a fellow officer.
(laughs)
My name is Henry Goldblume.
I'm a lieutenant
of the Metropolitan Police.
It might look as if I'm involved
in some undercover mission,
but I'm dressed like this
for a simpler reason.
It's my day off.
I'm speaking to you today
because you have expressed an interest
in law enforcement as a career.
Law enforcement as a career.
Now, what does this mean?
It means many things.
It means a career which offers
friendship, loyalty,
from those around you
and to those around you...
and pride.
Service.
And as I've been reminded here today...
duty.
And this is what
I would like to say to you.
I'm speaking to you
not as children now but as men.
Because you've done us
the favor of coming here today
to see the way we live.
We are here to enforce the law.
To serve and protect the populous
in need of service and protection.
It is their will,
the will of the people
expressed in the laws of city
and the regulations of the department
that controls our life.
The bad cop, straining against that will,
he bends the laws,
he flaunts the rules of the department,
and his life in the force
will be an unhappy one.
Because this man
forgoes the one,
the only constant satisfaction
he could have...
the satisfaction of doing his duty.
It's all locked.
Well, dang it, why'd those Statey's
have to stop us for anyway?
-We missed our connection.
-Can we catch up with your guy?
-Get the keys?
-No, he's gone.
Where does he usually hide the keys?
I don't know. This is my first time here.
You've never been here before?
The man's my linesman
from the old days at the Polk.
He says, "Use my cabin."
Gentlemen, I think the correct
answer here is break in.
We will break in. We will unlock the door.
Prior to leaving,
we will seal the window with wood
and leave your friend ample
funds to re-glaze his window.
...please.
Now the thing is, chop wood.
-Chop wood for--
-For the heat the house, my friend,
for we are in the country now.
Well, your friend from the Polk
doing some well for himself.
Well, we're just gonna have
to take the bitter with the better.
-Let's get unpacked.
-Stan, does this mean no chopping wood?
RENKO: Man, I may not even
go hunting tomorrow.
I might just stay right here
and order up a deer.
Well...
break out the cards
-and let's get into this weekend.
-Yeah.
-Lieutenant?
-Yeah, catch me later.
-McBride.
-Yeah.
-Hiya.
-Hi.
How you feeling? Nah, can that.
You feel like you look.
Uh, come here. I wanna tell you something.
(indistinct chatter)
I read in the report
how you shot that guy last night.
I don't wanna talk about the shooting.
Well, I do. So shut up or sign out
and go home, you got me?
You're a hero the way you catch him.
And then they treat you like you're a dog.
Don't look down at me
when I'm talking to you.
You know what a hero is?
You are a hero.
-What's it to you?
-What's it to me?
What's it to me? Two things:
One, some point,
I need an undercover female officer.
When you spring out of this,
I'd like it to be you.
Two, I'm a cop.
I'm the only person in the whole world
who gives a single damn about you.
So why don't you pack it away,
kid, and stand up straight?
This is a cop talking to you.
This is one of your own talking to you.
And I say I may have
to reach out for you soon,
so why don't you stand up
straight and shrug it off?
-The IAD--
-The IAD is gonna clear you.
-How do you know?
-How do I know?
Because I read the reports. And, two...
-I see it in your eyes.
-You see what?
I see that you did the right thing.
-I did the right thing?
-That's right.
Then why do I feel the way that I do?
-You want me to tell you?
-Yes.
Because you liked it.
Don't turn away.
This is a lieutenant talking to you,
so you just listen to what I'm gonna say.
You just got out of combat.
Lasted two minutes.
Doesn't make a difference.
You did something that
few people in this world do.
You stood up to
another human being in combat
where it was his life or yours,
and you're the one that walked away.
I've been there, kid.
I've been where you've been.
And the guilty secret is
it is the greatest exhilaration
that is possible to know.
Society says you go feel contrite,
so you feel contrite.
But deep down inside, you say this,
"My God, I'm afraid that I liked it."
-(scoffs)
-Uh-uh. I'm not done yet.
A healthy society, they'd say,
"Thank you, Officer, for doing your duty.
Thank you very much.
You put the thing behind you."
Not here.
Here, they treat you
like a criminal, they shun you,
and then you feel like you're a monster.
You want ten years' worth
of psychotherapy?
Here, you say this to me,
you say, "Norm, I liked it."
Go on, say it. 'Cause you know it's true.
Norm...
I liked it.
That's what you think, you dumb fool.
You were scared crazy,
and you're lucky that you're alive.
-MAN: Lieutenant?
-But you did your duty,
and so I say, "Good for you."
Lieutenant.
-Here, come with me.
-Where are we going?
We are going to quell the disturbance.
-I'm supposed to--
-You do what you're supposed to do.
It's the mark of a gentleman.
I am not here. I am going hunting.
-I--
-No, no, no, Patrick, really.
Whatever it is, save it for Monday.
I was just gonna wish you good shooting.
-Thank you, Patrick.
-(mimics gunshots)
Handling the Boy Scouts.
Woman's boyfriend won't make love to her.
Overtime.
Hm, you shoot 'em, Lieutenant,
-'cause they'd do the same to you.
-Goodbye, goodbye.
Free at last.
Goodbye, wage slaves. It's vacation time.
That's the man!
That's the man that raped me!
He raped me in his office!
I came here for help! I...
Is no one listening to me?!
I wanna file a report!
-Two cards.
-Similarly.
-Two cards for the man.
And the dealer takes, uh...
-Fronting off, as usual.
-And time will tell.
And, Stan, I believe it's your bet.
-My bet?
-Mm-hmm.
All right, discretion being
the better part of valor,
I will bet, uh...
How much money you got in front of you?
-Thirty-five, um--
-That's my bet.
Thirty-five dollars.
Why did those Statey's
stop us in that car?
I mean, I know
they said some burglaries--
Come on, man, what is more
suspicious-looking than a cop?
A thief don't even look
as suspicious as a cop.
-Thirty-five dollars.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm thinking about it.
-(door opens)
-(giggling)
-(woman moans)
-Is that your guy?
-Sir.
-(woman gasps)
What are you doing? Who are you?
What-- what are you doing here?
WOMAN:
Don't talk to them. Just call the police.
Now, hold on. We are police. Just hold it.
-Hold it!
-Hold it for God's sake!
-Now, who are you?
-No, who are you?
We're friends of John Swaboata.
And who is John Swaboata?
Is this John Swaboata's cabin?
-No, it's not. It's my cabin.
-And you are?
Who I am? It's none of your business
who I am. You're in my home.
What are you guys, you're police officers?
Yes, sir.
Then I think you'd better give me
your names and badge numbers, guys.
Um, could I talk to you a moment, sir?
Could I talk with you
a moment, please, sir?
(whooping)
How did you get us out of that?
Guy had a wedding ring on. Woman did not.
I thought he didn't kiss her
like the two of them were married.
So, it seems all of us
gonna forgive and forget.
So, if we've got the wrong place,
how is Henry gonna find us?
And where is our hunting lodge?
(car door shuts)
Does anybody wanna chop some wood?
-I'm very sorry.
-Not at all, not at all.
I just don't know.
I don't know what happened to my life.
-We're sorry to embarrass you.
-No, you didn't embarrass me.
-Look, I'm sure nothing will come of it.
-Nothing will come of it?
Of course nothing will come of it.
He was in a glassed-in room
with an open door.
He was with this woman
for something under five minutes,
-and it was in full view of everyone.
-Look, I'm on my day off.
Whatever the thing is,
let's talk about it
-if we have to talk about it next week.
-Absolutely.
Aw, hell.
Can anybody lend me $20?
Can-- Let's not all rush up here at once.
Look, people, I'm on vacation.
I gave Renko my money.
I have no money for gas.
-Sorry, Lieutenant.
-(sighs)
Can anybody cash a check for me?
-BOBBY: Whoo!
-(door shuts)
Oh, working up a chill out there.
STAN: You think it's cold now,
wait till 5:00 a.m.
Well, this is the life, man.
I don't care, man, Henry,
you are missing it.
Yep, this is something
more like hunting here.
-Thank you.
-(exhales sharply)
-Mm.
-You don't wanna drink too much of that.
-Nope.
-You wanna hit the hay.
Bright-eyed and bushy tailed, 4:00 a.m.,
get the jump on some sleepy deer.
BOBBY: Funny how things come back.
What is it?
Sitting around here,
cleaning the rifles, wood in the fire.
-Hmm. Smell of oil.
-That's right.
(sighs)
I remember one time, '69... '70?
We were, uh, a bunch of us,
we were on a ridge
about ten kilometers north...
MAN: There's nothing to talk about.
Hey, he's your brother, you tell him.
You tell him he can get
someone else to work nights.
-That's four time in six--
-Sir?
-Well, find out.
-I'd like to cash a check.
-Call me back.
-Sir? Sir?
-Yeah, okay.
-Sir, I'd like to cash a check.
-I--
I don't have an account here,
but I'm a police officer.
Oh, thank God, thank God.
I just-- I was waiting.
-I just-- I was almost held up.
-No.
-Yes.
-Look, did you call it in?
-What do you mean you were almost held up?
-The circular. The bandit.
-He came in the store.
-How long ago was this?
-Ten minutes ago.
-He's gone by now.
-I'm sure these officers--
-Lieutenant.
Pure coincidence. I just walked in.
You boys know the drill.
I want you to pay special attention
to this man's complaint.
-Thank you. Thank you, sir.
-Fine, fine.
Sir, if you could just... before you...
if you could just do me the favor...
(whistling)
Drive me out of here,
and drive me out of here fast.
STAN: 1943.
And we were, uh...
-we were dropped into Yugoslavia.
-Uh-huh.
And we were captured.
Never knew you were
with the airborne, Sarge.
Well, I was. And I don't know what it was.
The pilot got it wrong,
intelligence was wrong,
but we ran into an advanced unit
of the German V Corps.
And they, um,
there was some talk about it.
Uh, there were four of us
that they caught.
And they told us they were going to...
Well, they tied us up.
Uh, they were in a barn.
An old horse barn.
Stone.
And we said,
"What are you gonna do with us?"
And they said
that the next day when they left,
they'd be taking us
to-to their base camp as prisoners.
They left us under the guard
of this young kid-- young kid. (chuckles)
He was just a little younger than us.
He must have been 20.
And the kid was...
Uh, he knew they were gonna
kill us in the morning.
They were gonna kill you?
STAN: They were an advanced unit
of the armored corps.
They weren't gonna
burden themselves with prisoners.
And the kid...
we appealed to him.
Somebody said one thing they'd like,
as it was obvious
this was the last time we'd ever have it,
was we'd like a drink.
Uh, so the kid went up to the house,
the Germans were staying at the house,
and he brought back a bottle.
We started to drink.
(chuckles)
Got the kid drunk.
Well, you know...
I've told this story
several times, as you do...
And it occurs to me that...
It occurs to me
that every time I would tell it
I would say that we got the kid drunk
and we slipped out.
The truth...
Truth was, of course, we killed him.
(sighs)
Somebody's gonna have to die. Them or you.
Yes, that's true.
We knew it was true.
You ever sorry you killed him?
I'm sorry every day I live.
But I wasn't gonna let that man kill me.
Well...
Gentlemen, we're going
hunting in the morning.
I think we should get some rest.
-I don't--
-Just drive.
Just keep on driving.
What is all that junk back there?
I asked you a question.
-I'm going hunting.
-Hunting.
-It's hunting equipment.
-That is very interesting.
What is that? What is-- what is that?
What the hell? What the hell is that?
-A gun? Why?
-Uh...
-I'm a police officer.
-(scoffs)
I pick a cop?
All the stuff that's already
happened to me, oh, man.
Oh, man.
Pull the car over.
-Look--
-(gun cocks)
I said pull over the car.
Get out. I said get out!
Take the keys.
Open the trunk.
I think we ought to talk about this.
I said open the trunk.
And when you open it, then get in.
No, no.
Okay.
You start digging.
Dig a grave.
My uncle was a cop.
My dad was a cop.
My dad was two cops.
I would've guessed he was a cop.
-You would?
-Hey, it runs in the family.
Some kind of genes.
He die in the line?
My uncle? (scoffs)
He died of cirrhosis.
-Big deal.
-Stress of the job.
No, he liked to drink.
He would've been a drunk
if he was a crossing guard.
My dad died in the line.
(sighs) I'm sorry to hear that.
He was a hero.
I have no doubt that he was.
He was a hell of a man.
How old were you when he went down?
Fourteen.
Hell of a thing.
-They get the guy that shot him?
-No.
No, no, of course not, no.
And there you have it, huh?
You know what I say?
You know what life is?
-No.
-Life...
is when you're alive.
(laughing)
Hey, I'm a caveman. I don't care.
Some swell sits in an office all day long.
Well, fine.
-Fine for him.
-That's what I'm saying.
-Not for me.
-No, and that is your absolute right.
-But... but--
-Hey, leave it behind you.
-But if you've done something--
-Leave it.
Katie, Katie, look, look.
There comes a time when a man--
If he is a man, you see what I'm saying?
He must decide for himself
the way that things are.
-You follow? Do you follow me, huh?
-Yes.
Now, you shot that dude last night.
He threw down,
and you beat him to the punch.
An armed robber and he is dead.
Now, everyone else in this world is gonna
suggest that you went and you did wrong.
You somehow misused some right.
But you don't got the right
to shoot someone.
-I don't--
-Nobody does.
What you did last night,
that wasn't your right.
That was your-your duty.
Hey...
(chuckles) Hey. Hey, now.
That is a strange idea.
-Yeah.
-Try that on for size, huh.
I'll tell you what else.
I say that you...
you are okay.
Okay?
They took your piece.
You want a hide-out gun?
I'll give it to you.
Uh, you wanna borrow 100 bucks,
you just ask. It's yours.
You want someone
to keep a secret for you, Norm Buntz.
Hey, we've all been there together, pal.
I think I want one more drink.
Who rides, decides.
-Bartender.
-BARTENDER: Right away.
So, uh, tell me about your dad.
Ah, give me some of that.
Okay, stand in the wood smoke.
It'll hide any city scents
that you have on you.
The deer don't mind the smoke.
They'll run 15 miles
from the scent of aftershave.
Well, some of us more sartorial types
have that problem.
-(Bobby coughing)
-Okay, that's enough.
(sighs) What a beautiful morning.
-Mm, you said it.
-I wish Henry was here.
STAN: Okay.
Let's move out. No talking in the woods.
-(gun cocks)
-You got it.
All right.
And... and...
that's it?
Now you're gonna kill me?
Well, man, you know
that I have to kill you.
-You have to kill me?
-Kidnapped a cop, man.
What about if you didn't?
If you didn't kidnap a cop?
-They-- I know who you are.
-You know who I am?
They want you for those currency exchange.
What do you know about me?
-Description.
-Description?
-We don't have your name.
-What are you telling me?
I'm telling you no one has anything.
We have an MO.
You lay off...
you move off, and I'm gonna let this go.
-You're gonna let what go?
-I'm supposed to be hunting.
No one knows where I am.
Nobody knows.
Nobody saw me get in that car.
No one knows where I am.
If I go back tomorrow,
I can go back, and this never happened.
You take the car. Take the--
It has guns in it. Food. Take it.
I stopped by the road.
I'll say I stopped, and you'll have hours.
Someone stole my car.
You hear what I'm saying?
-I kidnapped you, man.
-No kidnapping, no.
No, I never saw you.
Look, what's in it for you?
No kidnapping,
no federal, no capital offense.
You know if you do this...
you know they'll find you.
I'm saying...
go free.
Whatever it is you want,
what you want to do, you do it.
I'm saying...
I'm just saying...
leave me here.
I'm begging you.
Whatever you want to do, you do it,
but I'm saying...
this...
this is the right thing for us both.
You know that I can't believe you, man.
Now, you don't--
you don't want to kill me.
You don't want to,
because you'd be killing us both.
Think about you.
I never saw you.
I never saw you. I never saw you.
(whispers) Oh, yeah.
-(thuds)
-(screaming)
-Bobby...
-What is it?!
-Bobby?
-What is it?
(screaming) I stepped on a...
I stepped on a...
I got a damn spike in my foot!
(crying)
BOBBY: Ow!
Hell of an ending
for a weekend in the country.
These things happen, my man.
Oh, I should've looked where I was going.
Can't look where you're going
and look at the deer at the same time.
Oh, yeah, oh, yeah. Oh, man.
I'm gonna get tetanus, get a shot,
walk with my foot in a cast
for the whole time.
It's just as easy to set the style
as it is to follow them.
Come on,
I'm gonna get you to the hospital.
No!
I'm fine. I'm fine!
Don't go making a spectacle out of me.
Let's...
let's get the place straightened out
and then we'll head back to town.
You know, I'm gonna save
this spike, Bobby Hill.
Get it mounted on a big plush,
wall plaque,
hang it in united pine den
as a memento of our hunting trip.
Wasn't that buck something?
Oh, had to go six points, 190 pounds.
Hundred and ninety? Are you guys nuts?
That there was a ten-point buck.
Over 205, 210 pounds.
I got the glass on him.
He... he blotted out the whole sky.
And he's still there, babe.
He's still there.
Next week, we--
When are we gonna all get
free time together again?
Then we will bury him in our memory.
Oh, man, oh, man.
I've never been so sick
in my whole entire life.
-Well, that's good.
-Why is that good?
'Cause if it's inside you,
it's gotta come out.
-Can you make it up the stairs?
-Yeah.
Oh, yeah, we, uh,
we solved those problems
last night, didn't we?
(laughs) I don't know.
I don't remember.
Oh, what am I gonna do today?
-I have to go sign in.
-Eh, call in. Take a personal day.
Stay home and look out the window.
-Buntz...
-Yeah?
My friends call me Norm.
-Norm.
-Yeah.
-You really turned me around a bit.
-Yeah, I know.
I'm glad to do it.
-Thank you.
-Hey, thank you.
Glad for the company.
Why did you reach out to me?
Two reasons.
One, I need a woman for an undercover bit.
What's the other one?
Well...
everybody likes to be next to a hero.
(chatter)
Lieutenant Goldblume,
we didn't expect you till, um--
Well, you know, I, uh...
I'd like the form
for carrying a backup gun.
-Could you please...
-Yes, sir.
LUCY: Surprised to see you so soon.
Everything went well
with your secret society of hunters?
-Yeah, my car was stolen. I never got--
-Your car was stolen?
-Back early, Lieutenant. Any luck?
-Not too much.
(chatter)
Form, backup revolver, carrying out.
Thank you.
Sir, you're gonna have to schedule
some time at the range--
Yes, yes, let's do that right now.
-I can, uh--
-Do that right away.
Tell 'em I can come right down.
-Morning, guys.
-BOTH: Morning.
Hey, you get 'em already, Lieutenant?
Am I gonna go out that door
and see 100 12-point bucks
strapped to the fenders of your car?
-He's free to come down--
-I'm free right now.
I'll come down right now.
MAN: He said he was probably
still in the area.
They said he was probably
in the area the whole time.
You could've seen him on the street.
Could've even gotten a look at him.
I didn't see anyone on the street.
They said come down and look at mug books.
I said, "Yes, it's gonna help you catch
the guy, you bet I will.
Before he kills someone!"
-This way, sir.
-Man, you ask me,
though you didn't ask me,
I think that you should've stayed to help.
Lieutenant, 1:30 this afternoon
range qualifying session.
Thank you. Could someone get me a form,
please, for a stolen car?
FRANK: Henry?
-You're back early.
-I, uh, well, you know.
I wanna thank you for giving the speech.
-Mm-hmm.
-I think it took a little bit of courage
to talk to those kids
about some serious stuff.
-Are you all right?
-Was up all night.
Well, thank you.
LUCY: Manly nonsense.
And there's enough violence in the world.
It's only nonsense if it's not your thing.
And what's this name-calling?
LUCY: Oh, not to the deer.
Not if the deer is killed.
Then it's not name-calling, is it?
No, uh-uh.
(indistinct chattering)
(telephone rings)
-WOMAN: Hill Street Station.
-(chatter continues)
-(knocks on door)
-Come in.
I was kidnapped last night.
-(Bobby groaning)
-Okay.
Grab hold of the door.
(groans)
Give one last sweep of the area
then head home.
Didn't even fire a shot.
Well, sometimes that's the way it is.
Leave it better than you found it.
-(car doors close)
-(engine starts)
(closing theme playing)